In the last lecture we have created this custom job to notify older users that someone else has also
commented on a blog post.
So what this job will do is it will first fetch older users that have also commented and then will also
dispatch another email to be sent to those users.
So what we will need is we need to create another email level class so let's run peach artisan make
mail and we can call that comment posted on post watched.
Doesn't really matter how we called up and specify a markdown template which would be emails posts comment
posted on watch.
So this is our template name.
It's also not really important how we call out so comment posted on post watched.
This is our new class which is male level will reuse what we did before so we'll implement the shoot
Q interface.
So this would always be put on the queue.
Now what we will need here is the comment instance.
So let's add up comment.
And also a user instance.
So make sure you add up user because this email would be different to every other user because we have
to provide him a name say something like hello and provide the user name.
So make sure you add those to imports.
And now this also requires the fields to be available to the view.
So this comment is command and this user is user.
So now those would be a variable as variable names to this particular view which of course is created
inside the resources view so let's open it now let's open this template and while you can see that it's
not here inside the directory at least Visual Studio code cannot find it.
Well it has to be refreshed somehow it doesn't pick up the changes all the time.
If you have the same problem just open it using comment P or control p on windows and type the file
name which is comment posted it should find it.
Now enter and you can open it.
And what will basically do is we'll reuse whatever we have inside the commented mark down blade template.
So let's copy the contents.
This would be almost the same with some exceptions.
So introduction would be different.
This would be comment was posted on post.
You are watching.
Well no one is actually watching opposed but let's assume that people that have commented on a post
are interested in other people comments.
So now we have this user view variable which we can use to get the name of this actual user.
So let's remove this tax will also provide the link to the blog posts and everything stays the same
as we also have the common variable here that will save the changes and well let's leave it like that.
So basically will notify someone that someone else has also commented on a blog posts so it's almost
the same ask their notification for the blog post out or above.
This doesn't really matter so much what is written inside this particular email.
Now let's think of how we can fetch all those users that have also commented on a blog post so since
we will be adding a query on the user it might be a good idea to just add a local query scope to the
user model itself because we might have to reuse that later so it might be usable not only for this
particular job.
So we won't write the query inside the job but we could if we wanted we can use all the models of lava
inside it so you can for example use the User model comment model fetch any data you want from the database
directly from the handle method of this job but we will create a query scope so we create a public function
starts with a scope and let's call it that has commented on post so we need an instance of builder object.
So this is our query builder and now something we probably haven't done yet inside our application.
So additional parameter to the query scope so this would be a blog post.
Now of course make sure that you have added the blog post to be important here.
So use up blog posts or actually you didn't have to do that because we are in the same namespace.
I forgot about that so blog posts can be used because it is in the same namespace as the User class.
So sorry for that.
Now will have to write this query.
So what we can use is there is this were has so we can do something on the relationship of this user
model.
So we know that it has comments relationship.
You can even scroll up to see that this user has comments relationships of which whenever he wrote any
comments those all would be available under this relationship.
So since comments can be comments on blog posts or users.
Now we have to actually add some specific query.
So this would contain a closure which also accepts query and we have to use post because it is from
the outside scope and we won't be able to access that.
Now what we will do is we will add some query to that so query and we are the We're close so were commendable
iodine.
So mind what we are using here.
So we are making sure that that comment.
So we are working on the comments relationship.
So each comment has a commendable idea field so if comment or boil I b equals the post idea.
So that's the first condition so we only want to fetch the comments relation of our user where those
comments are actually associated with a specific blog post.
So we know that now it's this field is not called blog posts ideas but commendable ideas.
So that's the first condition.
Now another one is commendable type has to be well has to be blog post b because we do not want to fetch
any comments on a user so blog post class or alternatively you can write just inside a string absolute
blog post and we might have optionally filter out the person who actually posted this comment but we'll
do that later because there is basically no way to do that here.
If we just post the blog post we will have to know what is the most recent comment out there so let's
leave it like that.
We can also return this here but not required.
Now let's open the terminal and run Tinker so we'll test out this queries.
So first let's find some blog posts so up blog posts find could be even the first one.
So we have that now inside the post variable.
And now what we can do is on user we can call this particular method that has commented on post.
So not is that there is our parameter here.
Previously we just added a builder.
This is also always handled by lot of else so you don't really have to pass this parameter but if you
will add any additional one then this is a mandatory parameter that you will have to pass when you are
using this local query scope so we can past post to it.
And finally we have to run get to actually execute this query.
Now what you can see is that we actually go to users and those are older users that have commented on
a blog post.
So this basically won't contain well every user that has at least one blog post.
We have actually filter that so we get all the unique users that has created comment on a particular
blog post.
So this works great.
We can now use that inside our job so now let's close the terminal and we can go to the actual job.
So we already have a comment based at here.
Now let's see how we should implement this so we can call user.
This is our app user.
So let's add an import for it this time we actually have to do that up user.
We do not want to use the full namespace.
Now this has that has well I've already forgot what's the scope name that has commented on post it has
to start with lower case.
Now how do we get this blog post from we actually get that from comments.
So this comment commendable.
So there it is.
This is our blog post.
Now we could get to actually execute this query.
Now what would what we do with these is we get all the users that have commented on our blog post and
well we do not actually want that.
So let's use the collection filter to filter out the user that has actually posted that comment so filter
all those would be users.
So all elements of this collections are collection are actually users.
So what we have to do inside this filter method is we'll have to check whether the user I.D. is different
mind that I have this strange characters I'm using this different font.
It's actually an asterisks with two equal sides so not equal to check.
Also the types of these variables just for the safety it's always the best practice and we can verify
if this is any different than that comment.
User I.D. so not is that previously when we used the when created closures and we wanted to access a
variable from the outside scope we have to use but this is not the case with the fields of the class
on which you are the closure because they are always available to any closure on that class.
So that's why we were able to access this comment without adding any use statement.
Now so this filter method will basically remove the user that has actually posted the comment and now
additional magic of larval collections.
There are all those methods you can call them.
It's basically it even has a name it's functional programming.
If you are interested and well I really love to do this in any language is not just peach bee.
Now there is the map.
So we map every user object to something
so we need another closure.
And now with every user that was left.
So except the one that actually added the comment now we'll finally use the mail for seed.
So also mind that you need this import statement we'll send this email to user because we want to call
that for every user that has commented on a blog post and we can just call send because this message
is.
Well actually we can't call send because it's not cute.
So that's at Q and we'll make sure that this email sending is also cued
or sorry no mistake in here.
So this particular Malabo class actually implements should Q Sorry for that send is enough.
Now we have to of course create a new instance of that class.
And if you remember it accepts a comment and a user.
So we have access to the comment from this comment and the user is available through the closure.
So it complains about something comment posted on post watched.
This is actually a movable maybe there is no.
Yes.
So I also haven't added an import comment posted on post watched.
So it's always better to use visual studio code when it tries to help me.
OK.
So mind you also have other this import here.
Now finally save the changes also inside our post comment controller make sure that you dispatch this
job.
First let's make sure we have started our a worker.
And now finally we should see everything that's posted anything doesn't really matter.
OK.
Now you see that the first job is bank process.
So this sends an e-mail to the outer of the blog post.
Then it tries to process our custom job notify users.
And this job actually fetches older users that have commented on a blog post and then creates another
jobs creates this Malabo class which is always put on queue comment posted on post watch.
You can see that one has been successful and one has actually failed because it was retried free times.
So let's see what happened.
So inside the failed jobs you can see swift transport exception 550 too many e-mails per second.
So we actually didn't do anything wrong.
It's just made trap who refused to accept so many emails at a time.
So what you can do actually is delay those emails not send them immediately.
So you can see this is the first post and then it was sent to all the ferry which happens to be an altar.
Well the e-mail is different but the name is Nya Cummings for.
So all those strange names anyway.
It's also sent to Karen had some DNS yes which happened to have commented on this blog post and well
obviously it didn't even try to send it to John Doe.
And well one of those jobs has failed.
So it might be a good idea to not try to send them all at once but instead modified this email.
So they want to implement should cue and instead we will delay this with couple seconds so we might
try to do this in the next lecture.
So we make sure that may drop won't fail.
Normal e-mails sending servers shouldn't fail with this amount of e-mail.
It's not much.
It's just too.
But you know this is some free mail trap account.
So this has happened.
We didn't do anything wrong so let's figure it out on the next lecture.